Hello and welcome and this lecture I want to provide a solution to our previous challenge which was
using the builder design pattern to construct vegetarian and non vegetarian meals spring up until today
we're going to create a project named builder solution and that will just be a solution to this example
as mentioned.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Builder solution
first thing I want to do is create our hierarchy of items before you implement the builder pattern.
So my create interfaces for item in packing.
The first one is interface item.
And this is going to implement three methods or contain three methods for implementation.
Getting the name of an item and returning a string returning a packing object which is the packing interface.
Because remember there's different packing for drinks versus the burgers.
And then also returning a price or implementing the price
classes to implement these item interface include both the burgers.
So let's go on now that this is gonna be an abstract class.
Let's say abstract class Burger
implements item.
And that should be that should be upper case class names should be upper case.
So implements item
this will need to have a couple overridden methods for both returning a packing object and this is just
good to return a new wrapper once we create that credit class.
So gonna say return new wrapper because burgers are packed and wrappers and again it'll be ready until
we create these classes our next overrun method is gonna be.
Actually this is gonna be an abstract.
We're not going to override it because we want our actual burger classes to implement them.
So this will be abstract flow Price and leave that as that.
And the name method as well will need to be overridden somewhere.
We won't put it in the abstract class though because we are going to force all the objects to implement
it.
We're not going to create the concrete classes for extending burger.
So this will be our veggie burger.
So we'll say veggie burger extends burger and this will override the price.
We're gonna say that our price for a burger is going to just return a flow twenty five point.
Again the prices are arbitrary.
They don't even have to be meaningful.
You can modify this as much as you want.
We're demonstrating the builder the other over in method is going to be the string and this is just
gonna return string literal veggie burger
and that's it for our veggie burger.
We then need to implement our chicken burger
chicken burger.
And this will have specific prices again for name and price so I'll just copy and paste that in except
this one will return I don't know fifty point five
specifies laterals and return
chicken burger class is getting kind of big but we'll stay with it for now.
We can separate in the files later we have to create our other abstract class representing a cold drink
that implements the item interface.
So say cold drink implements item and this is gonna be an override for our packaging we can actually
go back up to here copy this
and then we need a concrete class or a base class to implement holder and we'll just create two concrete
classes or some classes I should say of cold drink one named Pepsi and one named Coke stands cold drink
and that's will have over add methods for price a name as well
for the price of the Pepsi will just say thirty five.
Well maybe we should have meaningful prices I guess.
All right let's say the burger veggie burger is gonna cost 350 and let's say the chicken burger is going
to cost 450
and then let's say the cold drink the Pepsi is gonna be a dollar fifty
and the name will be Pepsi
and we also need a Coke class
Coke and that will be let's say that's dollars seventy five.
I don't know why but it will just to make it look different.
And Coke.
All right so almost done with our items we stopped them from the packing interface.
Well this implements all of our burgers and all of our drinks.
We still have to implement packing should we keep it in the same class or is it gonna be confusing to
everyone.
Well this is not demonstrating the builder so I will keep it in the same class.
And what we need to do now is first create our item in our interface packing.
So here is a interface packing.
And this is just going to be a public string pack method.
Now we need implement classes that implement that interface.
We need wrapper and bottle classes.
So class wrapper
implements packing.
This will just override
the pack method.
Public string pack
return wrapper.
That's it.
And when we need one more class for our bottle only in this one bottle.
And when we pack that we're just gonna say at this point it'd be a good time to build and compile.
You should always work in steps and constantly build and test.
See if we have any mistakes here.
And wrappers already defined so let's see.
We can't use that wrapper to delete that.
Let's see it did an automatic import the automatic import additive wrapper.
So there we go.
Now we can actually start implementing the builder.
The first thing I want to do with implementing the builder is we want to create a middle class which
represents the product right.
So let's create the product first will say new Java class and we'll say just say meal.
And this is going to represent the product.
Remember that the product classes are gonna have a list inside of them that will be added to the list
that we're gonna have to hear our actual objects their item object.
So we're gonna just say private list item and that's going to represent our items
we want to make sure this class is in the right package.
So there we go and list should be auto imported.
Okay.
So our constructor is just gonna instantiate the list
new array list will use and that contains
we need to add item method or an add at that method to add to the list.
Just takes an item
and we just say items to add item we could say with the last time we use the linked list.
So this is good we want to do add last.
We also want to add a gate cost and a show items method.
So it's a public flow get cost.
This is gonna be a total cost of all the items we'll just go through the items array and then return
them.
Pretty basic something like this local variable go through the items array add to the local variable
return the cost.
We're also going to have a show items which is going to show all the items in the array and that will
be good for testing purposes to make sure everything is built correctly I'm going to copy we go through
the items array so items and print out each item name each packing we can say item dot packing to get
our packing object called pack on it and then our price.
Pretty straightforward.
This is our product this is the ultimate goal of what we're trying to build.
The next thing we need to do is we need to create an interface for the abstract builder.
So here I want to say new class and I want to say Neil builder interface.
And inside here we'll just make this an interface.
Sure I can do that quicker but the interface meal builder we're going to have our build Burger in here.
Our bill drink
and our retrieval the meal our retrieval the product.
We then need to implement our concrete builders our veggie meal builder and our non veg meal builder
and we'll put that in the same class so veg meal builder is gonna implement our meal builder.
And remember that the concrete classes need to have an instance of the product.
So while it's a private meal veg meal we can instantiate it at lunchtime low time.
A new meal and then we're going to override the build burger and the bill drink and the get meal and
all this is gonna do.
Each one of these I'm gonna call the product to add to the list
so we're gonna do something like this
build burger is going to add to the product by calling the add item method and it's gonna add a new
veg Burger which is in the item list and this is going to add a new Coke because our veg vegetarian
meal is gonna be a veggie burger and a coke and then the last thing we need to do is we need to return
our product.
So we're going to say public meal get meal and we're just going to return our vegetable and that's our
first concrete builder.
The second concrete builder we've got to create is for our non veg meal.
So here this is gonna say non veg meal builder implements meal builder interface.
Again we're gonna have an instance of our meal our product non veg meal equals new veal.
We're gonna override our methods for building the bird or building a drink.
It's gonna do a little bit differently though it's not gonna add a veggie burger or Coke.
It's going to actually add a chicken burger and a Pepsi.
So it's this is the assembly of parts.
It's building a meal differently.
We then need to implement our get meal method that returns the product and that will return our product
pretty straightforward forward.
So return on veg meal.
Our member verbal.
We also need to create our director.
We'll put that in a separate class say new director class and I should be using this for interfaces
and just lazy.
The director is a class so we can keep it that way.
And I like the default axis in this case we need it.
The director needs to have a reference to the meal builder so we need to say meal builder interface
and we'll just say my builder and then the steps that we need to implement are gonna be in a construct
method.
So say public void construct.
And that takes a meal builder interface.
And that will just be builder.
And then here are steps one of the steps that we have to to do we have to build the burger we have to
build the drink first we have to set the instance the member variable to what's past in remember what's
going to be passed then is a concrete builder.
And so we can call methods on the concrete builder by just saying build burger and build drink in our
last step is creating our client.
That demonstrates that so we can build the right products.
So let's go out and create our new client.
Call this client.
This is going to demonstrate the builder pattern.
We want to have a public static void method
Main and we're just going to print out our meal pattern demo and then we're going to create a couple
new products.
The first thing we should do those we should create our director because that's what we need to you
to use to construct our meal.
So we'll just say.
Director Director equals new director will then create concrete builders using the meal builder interface.
The first one will be a veg meal builder.
And that will be create a new veg meal builder.
The other one will be a non-event meal non vegetarian builder which will create a non vegetarian meal.
So this will be new non veg Mumbai.
We then need to construct both of these the first we'll construct the vegetarian meal.
So we'll say director dog construct.
Paskin our concrete builder which is our veg team meal builder.
We then want to get the product.
So we'll create another meal that represents our vegetarian meal and we'll say veg meal builder get
meal then we can actually display some output which tested and we can show the items and we can print
out the total cost so we can just call those methods appropriately.
All right.
We can say print out the veg meal we're not all the items print out the total cost by just using the
vegetable instance and column methods on it.
We need to do the same for making the non veg meal so here we can just say making veg meal vegetarian
meal and then below this will say making non vegetarian non veggie meal.
And so we use the director again.
You say director construct this time we pass in our non Vegemite builder we get our products by calling
it by creating another instance of meal and just saying non veg meal equals non veggie meal builder
that get meal and then we'll display information and get by using that instance to call items in price
something like that.
So now we should be able to build and run and see what the output is to see if our builder pattern was
used correctly so we'll build.
OK.
And now we run run our client and you'll see that we built two meals we built a vegetarian meal which
included a veggie burger a wrapper for packing it was 3 3 5 350 really and then we created it also contained
a Coke which the packing was a wrapper so that's not right.
We made a mistake there.
The price was dollars seventy five.
The packing should be a bottle.
We made that mistake in both.
So let's see where we were wrong here.
It must be we constructed
the wrappers and so that has to be in the items I believe seer said a new wrapper for cold drink.
That's not right.
We need to say a new bottle.
And we need to do the same.
For the one that would be good because that's in the after class.
So that should fix that problem let's try again to build and run and we should now see the difference.
Okay so that looks right.
We're actually building the right packing for the drinks and that's the builder pattern in a nutshell.
We covered a lot.
Pay attention to the participants.
Might we first create it all over items which was quite the class hierarchy burgers drinks and all that
and wrappers.
We then created our product which was our meal that we wanted to build.
Contains a list and some nice helper methods of getting the total cost in the show items.
We then create our builder interface for building the burger and the drink implemented some builders
for vegetarian non vegetarian.
Lastly we created our director which included the steps and then our client that demonstrated the builder
pattern.
Thanks I hope this helped.
And please let me know if you have any questions in the Q and A.
Thank you.